In this lecture we are going to talk about how to use logistic regression in order to forecast stock
prices in the future.
So discreate dataset is going to fetch the data from Yahoo Finance and it is going to order additional
columns to the data set such as the lag one leg two or three in this case we are going to use five Wag's.
So what does it mean that we are going to calculate the daily returns one day ago two days ago three
days ago four days ago and five days ago.
This is what we have been discussing that the features are going to be this lag of arrivals and we are
going to have the directions whether the stock price went up or went down.
Of course we are going to rely on historical data because we need historical data in order to construct
this dataset so we download the data.
We are going to deal with the adjusted closing price.
We are going to calculate the lag of ribose and the directions plus one or minus one plus one.
If the stock price went up minus one.
If the stock price declined.
OK of course we have to drop the first six rows because we would like to get rid of an A and the values
these are invalid values.
Machine learning algorithms can deal with numerical values exclusively.
So if I print out the data frame it's going to contain lots of invalid values because of the shift operations.
So as you can see we have calculated lag 1 lakh to LAX 3 like 4 and I guess like five.
And of course the direction plus 1 and minus 1.
So that's why we have to get rid of the first six rows in order to make sure that our machine learning
algorithm is not going to crash.
So in the main We just have to get this data set.
We have to create the features we are going to consider for features the daily returns yesterday two
days ago three days ago when four days ago and the direction is going to be the target of arrival.
So we would like to approximate whether the price will go up or go down.
Feel free to end up with other features because of or so we have to test it.
And what are the best features to use.
Okay we have a date time because we would like to split the dataset into a training set and that has
sat Of course we use logistic regression we feed the model on the training data and we would like to
make some prediction.
We printout the accuracy and the confusion matrix going to clear the console and rerun the script as
you can see the accuracy is approximately 57 percent.
It is not that good as you may guess.
There are lots of lots of misclassified items as we can see from the confusion matrix.
So the diagonal items are the correct classification and there are several misclassified items stored
in the other diagonal items.
Okay so that's all about logistic regression as you can see it's not working that fine because 57 percent
is a bit better then 50 percent 50 percent is like tossing a coin.
So if we do not build the model at all this is not the case for logistic regression because we use that
logistic function we calculate the b the parameters B to zero between a to 3 with a gradient descent
or maximum likelihood method.
So it is a rather complex algorithm and we are not able to do much better than tossing a coin.
OK.
In the next lecture we are going to talk about K nearest neighbor classifier the fire dancer watching.